[Intro Music]
>> Daniel: So the first place we’re going
to start is the pantry. What do you got Tana?
>> Tana: Alright. Let’s see what we have.
Oh, we have some nuts, several nuts.
>> Daniel: Dry-roasted almonds.
>> Tana: Fine. Hmm, got some oils. More oil
– olive oil, vegetable oil.
>> Daniel: Ah, poison. That goes in the “kill
you early” piles.
>> Tana: We have red wine vinegar.
>> Daniel: That stays in “keep you alive
a long time.” Oh, Skippy peanut butter.
I grew up on this stuff. If only they taught
me how to read labels I would have thought
my mother was trying to kill me.
>> Tana: That’s right.
>> Daniel: Roasted peanuts, sugar, hydrogenated
vegetable oils. Oh, that means poison.
>> Tana: Poison and a lot of people don’t
know that peanuts are not nuts, they’re
legumes and they’re very high in something
called Aflatoxin which is a carcinogen.
>> Daniel: But the good news is there’s
great peanut butter, just not this.
>> Tana: There’re also great alternatives.
>> Daniel: Bread crumbs. Alright. Let’s
count how many ingredients are in bread crumbs.
Bread crumbs, rich flour – that’s not
bad, partially hydrogenated; anything that
says “hydrogenated” or “partially hydrogenated”
means early death; monosodium glutamate. Actually,
once had a patient who would get violent whenever
he had MSG. No.
>> Tana: Very bad for kids. Do we really need
to even talk about this one?
>> Daniel: Sun syrup. I love this stuff.
>> Tana: It doesn’t love you.
>> Daniel: High fructose corn syrup. So, anything
that says hydrogenated or partially hydrogenated
or high fructose corn syrup, just assume it’s
poison and will kill you early.
>> Tana: Right.
>> Daniel: So, as soon as you read that on
the label you actually don’t have to read
the other seven, eight, nine, ten things including
red dye which has been shown to cause behavior
problems in children. Actually I already have
behavior problem so I don’t need any more
encouraging.
>> Tana: That’s right. We have one we can
save.
>> Daniel: Yellow, mustard. I love that.
>> Tana: Oh, another one we can save, I think.
Yep, this one’s great. Tomato puree, chilies.
It’s got some food starch but, vinegar.
Gluten-free.
>> Daniel: Wow.
>> Tana: There’s got some salsa and they’re
not bad.
>> Daniel: Salsa actually is generally very
low calorie. This is only 10 calories per
two tablespoons and it’s got a lot of good
stuff.
>> Tana: And it’s great alternative to ketchup.
>> Daniel: Oh, give me a heart arrhythmia.
My grandfather was a candy maker, I mean like
a real candy maker. I used to make fudge with
him. So, how many ingredients? And the first
one being fructose corn syrup and now we have
milk. Most people don’t know is that after
the age of 5, 70 percent of people in the
world do not process milk well in their digestive
system so the less milk probably the better.
So we have high fructose corn syrup, milk,
corn syrup, partially hydrogenated coconut
oil. Coconut oil is not the problem, it’s
the hydrogenated part.
>> Tana: Coconut oil is great if it’s not
hydrogenated.
>> Daniel: Mono-diglycerides. You need a chemist
to know. In the bad pile.
>> Tana: Scary. Another note on milk: if you’re
going to drink milk it’s best to drink it
organic where they’re not adding extra growth
hormones to it so it’s big problem with
milk – and the antibiotics. So if you drink
milk, make sure that it’s organic.
>> Daniel: Well, in any animal products you
want to be thinking about them as hormone-free,
antibiotic free, free range which mean didn’t
raise it in a small cage. If you also want
to have a sense of what the meat you eat,
what they ate, because you basically consumed
what they consumed.
>> Tana: Absolutely.
>> Daniel: And while you’re there, I love
the almonds but these are dry-roasted and
they have salt. Our preference would be raw
almonds just because you want to be careful
with the sodium, this has 150 mg per serving.
>> Tana: Yeah and more than that, beyond that
almonds are the wonderful natural fats that
are so amazing for you - you lose all that
benefit when you roast them.
>> Daniel: So, better to have them raw. So,
what do you think? Good pile or bad pile?
>> Tana: Bad pile. They have to go.
>> Daniel: Pinto beans with jalapeno peppers.
That can’t be bad for you, except there’s
like 14 ingredients. Pinto beans, no problem;
peppers, good; hydrogenated cotton seed oil,
as soon as you say hydrogenated anything...
>> Tana: Yes, and cotton seed oil is not good
for you. One thing about beans, beans are
fabulous source of fiber and protein especially
for vegetarians if you’re not sensitive
to them. Many people have sensitivities to
legumes – beans - and also to some grains
unless they’re prepared correctly. If you
prepare them fresh, you soak them and cook
them properly, it eliminates a lot of problem.
>> Daniel: Tomato sauce. Love it, except what’s
in it. Tomato, salt, dehydrated onions, garlic,
garlic is great, sweet bell peppers, good.
Aha! Chicken broth. Love chicken broth. Hello,
why is there cane sweetened anything in chicken
broth?
>> Tana: Yeah and actually most of the chicken
broths do not have that so you really want
to pay attention because you can get chicken
broth without anything in it. Also if you
are gluten-free, it will say gluten-free.
This one’s not gluten-free.
>> Daniel: So we should talk about that in
a little bit because we need to get to bread
in a little bit. About 7 percent of the population
in America is sensitive to gluten. That means
21 million people. People who are gluten sensitive
often have a lot of problems. Diarrhea, constipation,
upset stomach, gas but they also have cognitive
problems. They have problems with depression,
anxiety. We actually see over a lower activity
in their brain. If you don’t know that you’re
sensitive to gluten, it’s often good to
get a blood test or do yourself a big favor
and take the challenge for a month and go
off everything that could possibly have gluten
in it. Garlic vegetable instant rice noodle
soup.
>> Tana: Usually if it says instant, it instantly
has to go.
>> Daniel: Well if the ingredient list is
like there’s 30 things, it means just put
it in a pile that will kill you early.
>> Tana: Instant anything is usually instant
death, so… The American staple.
>> Daniel: Pasta. Doesn’t it turn into like
sugar like immediately?
>> Tana: If you see white rice or pasta, think
sugar. You’re eating a bowl of sugar.
>> Daniel: No. Now you have a secret though,
with pasta.
>> Tana: I do.
>> Daniel: They’re called Shirataki noodles.
>> Tana: We are going to share that in a little
bit.
>> Daniel: Ah. So, there are alternatives
that are actually very tasty that you can
do so you don’t have to think you’re getting
rid of spaghetti forever.
>> Tana: That’s right.
[Outro Music]